# Assignment 3
## Info
Name: Gabriel Olivotto    
Email: golivott@uwo.ca  
Student #: 251150929

## Submission
### Exercise1.cpp
This is my source code for rendering link's room.
#### The File Reading
- I extracted the contents of the `LinksHouse.zip` to a folder called `LinksHouse` in the same directory as `Exercise1.cpp`.
- When reading the file I store the number of verticies and faces, I also parse the order of the verticies properties to ensure values are stored in the correct location.
- Once the header has been fully parsed I then loop through the number of verticies that was specfied in the header and ensure the values are stored in the correct order.
- Next I then loop through the faces using that was specfied in the header and parse the information accordingly.

#### TexturedMesh Class
- The constructor handles the creation and binding of the VBOs and VAO using the information about the verticies and faces it gets from parsing the `.ply` and `.bmp`. It then compiles and bind the vertex and fragment shaders used for rendering the mesh.
- The draw method sets the active texture to use, passes the MVP uniform to the vertex shader, binds the VAO, then draws the mesh using `glDrawElements`.

#### Main
- Create the textured mesh objects before the render loop
- Camera is controlled by checking the state of the arrow keys at the start of each render loop and apply the corresponding translation or rotation the camera's position and rotation.
- The MVP matrix is created using the camera's position + camera's direction as the target of the `glm::lookAt` function
- The meshes are then drawn ending with the meshes that have transparency.

### Screenshot1.png
This is what the program looks like when it initially loads.

### Screenshot2.png
Position the camera over the sink and rotate the camera to look at the table with the fruit and the bed.

### Screenshot3.png
Position the camera over the patio and look through the door into the house.

# Windows Build Enviroment Setup
1. Install MSYS2 (https://www.msys2.org/)
2. Open MSYS2

    a. Install pacman: `pacman -Syu`
    
    b. Install MinGW: `pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-toolchain`

    c. Install Freegult: `pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-freeglut`

    d. Install Glew: `pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-glew`

    e. Install GLFW `pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-glfw`

    f. Install glm `pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-glm`

3. Add `C:/msys64/mingw64/bin` to user PATH variable 
4. Add `C:/msys64/mingw64/include/**` to your includePath in editor

### VS Code Setup
I use VS Code as my editor to get that working properly I had to install the C/C++ extension and update my config files as follows:
#### .vscode/task.json
```json
{
    "tasks": [
        {
            "type": "cppbuild",
            "label": "C/C++: g++.exe build active file",
            "command": "C:\\msys64\\mingw64\\bin\\g++.exe",
            "args": [
                "-fdiagnostics-color=always",
                "-g",
                "${file}",
                "-o",
                "${fileDirname}\\${fileBasenameNoExtension}.exe",
                "-lfreeglut",
                "-lglew32",
                "-lopengl32",
                "-lglfw3",
            ],
            "options": {
                "cwd": "${fileDirname}"
            },
            "problemMatcher": [
                "$gcc"
            ],
            "group": {
                "kind": "build",
                "isDefault": true
            },
            "detail": "Task generated by Debugger."
        }
    ],
    "version": "2.0.0"
}
```

#### .vscode/c_cpp_properties.json
```json
{
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "Win32",
            "includePath": [
                "${workspaceFolder}/**",
                "C:/msys64/mingw64/include/**"
            ],
            "defines": [
                "_DEBUG",
                "UNICODE",
                "_UNICODE"
            ],
            "windowsSdkVersion": "10.0.22621.0",
            "compilerPath": "C:/msys64/mingw64/bin/g++.exe",
            "cStandard": "c17",
            "cppStandard": "c++17",
            "intelliSenseMode": "windows-gcc-x86"
        }
    ],
    "version": 4
}
```

#### Building
Open the file to be built, then from the top bar select `Terminal > Run Build Task`